All right.
So welcome back to the resolution part of the intro today's science course.
And today we're going to continue with our visual data mining approach to the problem.
So what have we got so far we've gotten that to the stage where we've created a very useful tool inside
our workbook which allows us to analyze the effect of certain variables.
In this case the way we can think that a person on the outcome.
So here we know that people who are contacted through mobile cellular had a 15 percent chance of taking
up the offer.
And and people who we last contacted by landline only had a 5 percent chance or only 5 percent conversion
rates or a chance conversion rate 5 percent of those people can vote.
And let's just reiterate the key here is that we put these into relative terms rather than absolutes
or an absolute of course there's more people in this box.
You know this 22 plus 3000 whereas there's only fourteen thousand plus or 100 here.
So a larger amount but not larger number of people.
But if we put them in percentage terms then we can compare side by side.
OK.
So that's what we did for mobile or I mean.
Right.
So let's rename the sheet.
So if you double click on the this name here sheet one of each.
And you can change the name.
So we're going to change it to contact.
So we remember.
And so now let's look at another variable and what else do we have this look at the marital status and
instead of creating everything from scratch we're just going to click on this on a windows right click
or on a Mac press hold on control and left click and click duplicate and so now we're going to rename
this right away to marital and all we're going to do is this is what I love about tabel is so quick
to change things so quick to create resolutions all dragon Rob would be so much harder and other tools.
So if you take marital and you drag it and you just put it over contact like replace it bam everything
is done.
That's it.
So as you can see because contact only came up once.
Now everything is about marital all of a sudden it's we're analyzing their marital status and who we
do people with.
What kind of marital status ended up having a higher probability of taking up our offer or what had
a higher percentage of uptake or higher conversion rate for our offer.
All right so here we've got marital as you can see we've got four columns now.
So before it was more like an AB test cell versus a telephone here we've got four colos who got divorced
unmarried single and unknown.
And so what can you tell from this like try to be a data scientist maybe pause this video and try to
look at this and decide for yourself which ones have a high murder rate.
Which ones are more likely.
Well it's pretty straightforward pretty obvious from here.
From the way we are we've structured this is very easy to tell.
It's very easy to tell that people who are single were more likely to take up over 14 percent of the
people we contacted.
Again this is all in in relative terms.
Right 14 percent of the total number in this column we don't really care what the number was right now
right.
We don't care that this number is much greater.
Twenty five thousand here or almost 25000 whereas there's only like ten or eleven thousand here but
in relative terms is no difference.
And again I'm just going to remind you that just double check that here you have.
You have what you have.
Quick table calculation percent of total checked off and compute using table down.
If you have compute using table across you'll have a different picture.
Won't be the same.
It has to be table down meaning that the percentage is calculated in every single column separately.
And same here so in this in this one you just had some measure some.
But in this one you have a quick table calculation percent of total and compute using table down.
So here we can see that single people had a much higher not much higher but a higher chance of a high
conversion rate.
Now why am I not pointing out the unknown.
The reason for that is first of all they're unknown so most likely like we can't really do much about
it right.
Maybe maybe we can't maybe there's like a feel in the feel we can like leverage that the field does
not.
But the thing here is that maybe you picked up on this.
The thing is that there's only 12 people in this category and 12 plus 60 80 or so in total.
There's 80 people in this whole called it looks like like a lot because we've put them in absolute terms
in relative terms.
They're all kind of like up to 100 percent.
But in reality there's like you know five thousand or four and a half thousand a year 23 11000 and then
there's like 80 people in this hall.
So what this means and this is something to look out for.
That this could actually be a sampling error or this could be just like a random effect.
It just randomly happened that we picked 80 people the 80 people that are in this column.
It just they are just somehow for other reasons more likely to sign up to this off or rather than you
know their marital status.
And that's an important thing to always remember they sense and that's why this is a good illustration
of why in our guide for getting into data science statistics is at the start.
Right.
Like you don't need to know complex mistakes you don't need to know a lot of statistics but the basic
things you need to understand a little bit.
Like for instance you need to understand that this is not a statistically significant result and you
know if you have 11000 here that's that's significant.
Very unlikely that this happens at random that this effect is a random effect.
But it is very likely that this is a random effect.
We cannot say with certainty that this will be this is going to be replicable in the future.
So that's why we're going to disregard this and we're only going to talk about these.
So just something to keep in mind and it's a good illustration of why statistics matters and to what
level knows all we need to understand is kind of like have a feel for it.
And and of course before we present the results you would run if you were to go ahead like this you
would run some statistical significance results and check them.
But we're not going to do that now because we're focusing on results.
So let's do quickly a couple more to duplicate this one.
And what do we want to look at.
We look at education.
So just drag away here replace rename the good name.
Always good to have things organized.
And here again so you can see this one looks higher but this is probably our insignificant result.
It's got four so you can actually just right click and exclude If you are probably probably better to
exclude the whole thing or just click here and right click and exclude.
So it doesn't get in the way.
You know anything you feel is physically significant.
As a rule of thumb try to go for at least 200 observations.
Like everywhere like in each of these boxes at least that will kind of keep you safe but still in some
cases it will still be a statistically insignificant.
So what do we see here.
You know unknown is unknown.
Well we can see that people for university degree look like they're more likely to take up the offer
than people who are most likely to take up law right or especially people who are of like 4 6 9 high
school professionals so maybe that's something worth pointing out.
There's either on duplicate that we're looking for like stronger effects.
Let's see if we can find anything stronger.
So put this in and you noticed that probably that thing I showed you about excluding is probably don't
do that because it adds a filter here and we don't want to get into filters right now so just right
click here and remove this filter so that this this unknown comes back.
And so this issue this filters affecting our next slide.
Right.
So either or or at least make sure you don't have filters when you proceed to next flood because otherwise
it can get confusing.
OK.
So what do we have here.
If we add so now we put in loan right and loan means do they have.
So we can go back here we can reference this.
It says Have a look whereas loan loan Do they have a personal loan.
So the people in the bottom we've got people who don't have a personal loan people have a personal and
unknown as you can see there's no change.
This has no effect and also these are quite statistically significant especially this one 100 these
ones and maybe more or less OK.
But nevertheless there is still nothing to observe anyway.
They're all 11 percent.
So we can tell from here that most likely it doesn't really affect their decision to take up the product.
You know whether or whether or not they have a loan a personal loan doesn't really affect their decision
to make a product.
All right.
Let's duplicate this again.
Let's do one more.
And this one's going to be month.
Let's see if it affects when what month we call them in.
And here we see a much different picture.
Very interesting as well right.
And all of these look quite good except for the December 1.
It has like 89 years observations there as have you know at least 200 400.
But you can see the dispersion how this dispersion how the diversity of all of these you know some are
higher some are lower.
This is crazy.
So what are going to do is I will leave you to explore this and try to understand why Esselmont highest
in months low or just based on what you know about what happens in certain months and then we'll talk
about it together next eternal.
And also I wanted to suggest a quick for you looking at the Achree things to look at on your own.
So we're not going to go through all the variables now but have a look at the next one on your on your
own.
So look at housing.
Day of the week and the outcome.
And remember the outcome is the outcome is outcome of the previous marketing campaign not the one we're
doing now but previously did they take up their previous spanking campaign or not.
So have a look at those on your own.
Again it is housing it was day of the week and people come and see what you get.
So there will be some some good practice.
Remember data size is all about practice practice practice.
So analyzing this and trying to understand what these insights are saying and why they're saying that
and also doing those three variables will be good practice and I'll see you back here on the next trial.
Until then enjoy data science.